!A summary of Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition by Kaiming He et al.

Thursday, September 29, 2022 · 2 minute read

A summary of Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition Kaiming He et al.; INSERT DOI
For the summary of the paper, go to the Summary section of this article.
Table of Contents A summary of Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition Table of Contents First Pass Category Context Contributions Second Pass Background Work Motivation Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Clarity Relevant Work Third Pass Author Assumptions Correctness Discussion of the Proofs How Would I Present the Idea(s) Future Directions Summary Summarization Technique Citations First Pass Discussion about the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section headings, and conclusion
Category What type of paper is this work?
Context What other types of papers is the work related to?
Contributions What are the author&rsquo;s main contributions?
Second Pass Background Work What has been done prior to this paper?
Motivation Why should we care about this paper?
Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that conclusions are statistically significant?
Clarity Is the paper well written?
Relevant Work Mark relevant work for review
The following relevant work can be found in the Citations section of this article.
Third Pass This section can only be complete after a virtual re-implementation of the paper
Author Assumptions What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?
Correctness Do the assumptions seem valid?
Discussion of the Proofs How Would I Present the Idea(s) Future Directions My own proposed future directions for the work
Summary A summary of the paper
Summarization Technique This paper was summarized using the technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work How to Read a Paper [0].
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	URL:https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

.
