!A summary of Automated Payment Terminal Testing: How to Achieve Continuous Integration for Systems that are Almost Impossible to Virtualize by Martin Gloor et al.

Sunday, February 19, 2023 · 4 minute read

A summary of Automated Payment Terminal Testing: How to Achieve Continuous Integration for Systems that are Almost Impossible to Virtualize Martin Gloor et al. IEEE Computing Edge, December 2022 DOI [0]
Table of Contents A summary of Automated Payment Terminal Testing: How to Achieve Continuous Integration for Systems that are Almost Impossible to Virtualize Table of Contents Summary Shift Left of Die - Or, Why are We Doing This? To Virtualize or Not To Virtualize A Journey of Trial and Error Scaling With Cards Coping With Calibration APIs and Abstraction Layers Generic, But Not! Habemus Automation! A Continuous Journey Citations Summary Pure software solutions benefit from continuous integration platforms. However, solutions that involve both hardware and software - such as payment terminals - need to develop custom continuous integration platforms that test both components in order to meet modern Agile development practices.
Shift Left of Die - Or, Why are We Doing This? Since Abrantix (the company the authors work at) design and development payment terminal systems, they typically test end-to-end solutions with human testers. However, as tests involve many repetitive tasks, human error and fatigue can invalidate many tests. Therefore, they needed to develop an automated platform to not only handle software testing and continuous integration, but also hardware testing and integration. In doing so, they aim to catch bugs earlier in the development cycle, reduce human error, and run regression testing all autonomously.
To Virtualize or Not To Virtualize While it is possible to abstract hardware interfaces virtually, there is difficulty in virtualizing some actions that need to be tested. For example:
Card readers are hard to mock as they need to test magstripe, contactless and contact chip payments, and the Eurocard, MasterCard, Visa (EMV) standard would need to be virtualized as well. Secure modules are hard to mock as the required cryptographic functions are often proprietary, can involve both symmetric and asymmetric keys, and have to comply with rigorous standards. No real end-to-end testing of hardware and software is tested. A Journey of Trial and Error Abrantix decided to go with a robot to solve the end-to-end hardware and software testing. They started with a cheap robotic arm and found that it was capable of handling both contactless and contact based chip solutions, but was unable to enter PIN codes. They therefore pivoted to a 3D printed solution to enter PIN codes and to drop the robotic arm solution.
Scaling With Cards To scale with multiple cards, a multiplexer was built to handle inputs from multiple different cards into a single output.
Coping With Calibration In order to calibrate the robot for each terminal, a layout of each terminal was made and a user could select what terminal to test. It was therefore on the user to swap in and out the terminals for each test. This way a single test could be written and abstracted away from the terminal interface.
APIs and Abstraction Layers At this point the base end-to-end testing solution was built. However, as the solution scaled to meet the demands of the company and partners, it became apparent that the software architecture couldn&rsquo;t handle all of the requested features. Therefore, abstraction layers were written and a REST HTTP API interface was created to simplify both the development of the software solution as well as to allow third party orchestration tools to hook into the state of the testing solution.
Generic, But Not! To allow for control of the robotic testing platform as well as to provide extensibility to the REST API, a schema based on JSON was developed that can be used to control the robot.
Habemus Automation! Now that the testing solution had been developed, a stress test of running 5,000 transactions on individual terminals was ran. 70 bugs were found on average per terminal model. These bugs couldn&rsquo;t have been found in such a short time without the development of this tool.
A Continuous Journey There a number of security concerns and procedures not currently implemented in the testing solution. However, Abrantix is intending to continue the development of this solution and iterate upon, just as any developer would working with continuous integration.
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1109/MS.2021.3094955	URL:https://doi.org/10.1109/MS.2021.3094955

.
