!A summary of Toward Fail Safety for Security Decisions by Trent Jaeger

Sunday, February 19, 2023 · 2 minute read

A summary of Toward Fail Safety for Security Decisions Trent Jaeger IEEE Computer Volume 55; Issue 4, 2022 DOI [0]
Table of Contents A summary of Toward Fail Safety for Security Decisions Table of Contents Summary Examples of How User Decisions Impact Security A Design Goal: Fail-Safe Decisions Using Fail Safety Effectively Citations Summary Developers of technologies aim to automate security decisions on behalf of the consumer. However, security decisions made by end users are often ad-hoc and unguided. As researchers, we should figure out how to create systems that are reduce vulnerabilities when poor manual choices are made.
Examples of How User Decisions Impact Security Mobile applications often request access to sensors on the device to operate. However, it is often unclear as to why these applications want to utilize these sensors. Additionally, by granting security access to malicious apps, it is possible for the apps to modify core system functionality or compromise core processes for their own gain.
Within the IoT space, often developers let the end users handle the security permissions on their end. However, it is both the developers and the end-users job to ensure that the devices are operating within in a secure environment.
A Design Goal: Fail-Safe Decisions We should have fail-safe defaults that expresses the permissions that a device or application has rather than what it doesn&rsquo;t. In other words, return positive feedback as to the what an application or device can do, rather than what it can&rsquo;t.
To support this, applications need to help users make better decisions. This could be done through supporting safe choices through the path of least resistance. In other words, make it easy to secure an application and difficult to disable security. However, it is difficult for programmers to decide what is and isn&rsquo;t a safe decision.
Using Fail Safety Effectively If fail safety is implemented on a per device level, it won&rsquo;t be able to scale to entire technology sectors. Therefore, best practices need to be developed in order to allow fail-safety to grow.
However, as legacy applications did not focus on information-flow integrity, it might be impossible to back port fail safety to legacy applications.
Furthermore, research needs to be done on how to identify when manual security changes expose applications to security vulnerabilities. This way programmers and researchers can devise new methods of protecting the end user when they disable security features.
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1109/MSEC.2021.3096614	URL:https://doi.org/10.1109/MSEC.2021.3096614

.
