!A summary of Very Deept Cnvolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition by Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman

Wednesday, September 28, 2022 · 3 minute read

A summary of Very Deept Cnvolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition by Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman Author names https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1409.1556
For the summary of the paper, go to the Summary section of this article.
Table of Contents A summary of Very Deept Cnvolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition by Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman Table of Contents First Pass Category Context Contributions Second Pass Background Work Motivation Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Clarity Relevant Work Third Pass Author Assumptions Correctness Discussion of the Proofs How Would I Present the Idea(s) Future Directions Summary Summarization Technique Citations First Pass Discussion about the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section headings, and conclusion
The paper Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large Scale Image Recognition by Karen Simonyan and ndrew Zissernman discusses the SOTA performance of their model in the 2014 ImageNet Challenge on localisation and classification tasks. They discuss that be extending the depth of convolutional neural networks to 16 up to 19 layers, with a 3x3 filter size, SOTA performance is possible without redeveloping the architecture of existing convolutional neural networks. This is in contrast to Szegedy&rsquo;s work who proposes the Inception architecture for classification and object detection; with which the reference implementation also came first in the 2014 ImageNet Challenge in its respective tasks. Simoyan et al. discuss the architecture and training that went into their model (VGG) and how to architect future models to perform as well or better.
Category What type of paper is this work?
This is both a computer vision model evaluation and architecture paper.
Context What other types of papers is the work related to?
This paper is most closely related to others who publish work regarding SOTA performance on CV architecture and models.
Contributions What are the author&rsquo;s main contributions?
Their main contributions is an exploration of depth in traditional convulational neural networks to achieve SOTA performance.
Second Pass Background Work What has been done prior to this paper?
Prior work has gone into optimizing the width and intial convulations of convultional neural networks.
Szegedy et al. proposed a new architecture (Inception) that achieved SOTA performance in the 2014 ImageNet Challenge. Else, Krizhevsky et al. [2] and others have proposed improvments to the convulational neural network architecture.
Motivation Why should we care about this paper?
We should care about the authors work as increasing the depth of a neural network by their proposed architecture allows for easy expansion of existing convulational neural networks without redesigning the libraries used to create them.
Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that conclusions are statistically significant?
The tables that are presented are easy to read, but can be improved upon. Often, multiple rows will correspond with a single model configuration. This is fine, however, it is difficult to make out what configuration each row corresponds to.
Clarity Is the paper well written?
Relevant Work Mark relevant work for review
The following relevant work can be found in the Citations section of this article.
Third Pass This section can only be complete after a virtual re-implementation of the paper
Author Assumptions What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?
Correctness Do the assumptions seem valid?
Discussion of the Proofs How Would I Present the Idea(s) Future Directions My own proposed future directions for the work
Summary A summary of the paper
Summarization Technique This paper was summarized using the technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work How to Read a Paper [0].
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	URL:https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

h1. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1409.1556	URL:https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1409.1556

h2. https://doi.org/10.1145/3065386	URL:https://doi.org/10.1145/3065386

.
