!A summary of MobileNets: Efficient Convolutional Neural Networks for Mobile Vision Applications by Andrew G. Howard

Thursday, December 1, 2022 · 2 minute read

A summary of MobileNets: Efficient Convolutional Neural Networks for Mobile Vision Applications Andrew G. Howard arXiv, 2017 DOI
For the summary of the paper, go to the Summary section of this article.
Table of Contents A summary of MobileNets: Efficient Convolutional Neural Networks for Mobile Vision Applications Table of Contents First Pass Problem Motivation Category Context Contributions Second Pass Background Work Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Clarity Relevant Work Methodology Author Assumptions Correctness Future Directions Open Questions Author Feedback Summary Summarization Technique Citations First Pass Read the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section headings, and conclusion
Problem What is the problem addressed in the paper?
Motivation Why should we care about this paper?
Category What type of paper is this work?
Context What other types of papers is the work related to?
Contributions What are the author&rsquo;s main contributions?
Second Pass A proper read through of the paper is required to answer this
Background Work What has been done prior to this paper?
Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that conclusions are statistically significant?
Clarity Is the paper well written?
Relevant Work Mark relevant work for review
The following relevant work can be found in the Citations section of this article.
Methodology What methodology did the author&rsquo;s use to validate their contributions?
Author Assumptions What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?
Correctness Do the assumptions seem valid?
Future Directions My own proposed future directions for the work
Open Questions What open questions do I have about the work?
Author Feedback What feedback would I give to the authors?
Summary A summary of the paper
Summarization Technique This paper was summarized using a modified technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work How to Read a Paper [0].
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	URL:https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

h1. http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04861	URL:http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04861

.
