!About

Sunday, June 26, 2022 · 2 minute read

I&rsquo;m going to write this page interview style.
Who Who is this international man of mystery? Nicholas M. Synovic (the last time I&rsquo;ll refer to myself like that) is committed to creating a better world through education via developing software.
In other words, I want to teach others or educate them on topcis by creating tools that don&rsquo;t exist.
What What do you do? Currently, I&rsquo;m a Research Assistant at Loyola University Chicago exploring software supply chain security of machine learning model hubs and solutions for low powered computer vision.
Additionally, I&rsquo;m an Intel OneAPI Student Ambassador educating others through blogs, YouTube videos, and hot takes on social media.
What have you done? I&rsquo;ve worked on both research and corporate tools that simplify and provide insights into processes.
Where Where can I find your resume? Click the Resume link at the top of the page.
When When will you post on social media next? Great question.
Why Why are you creating this site? To be the central hub of all the content that I post on social media.
Also because it&rsquo;s cool to website in 2022.
Why is your head in a weird spot for your blog hero image? Here is the story.
All of the hero&rsquo;s orginal sizes and aspect ratios where different. This caused the pages to jump around when navigating. So I cropped everything to the proper size and aspect ratio to solve the problem.
This resolved the jumpiness, but it introduced that creepy image of my head just peeking up.
To tell you the truth, this site looks better on mobile. And until I get around to fixing the theme&rsquo;s default styling for desktop regarding heros, I&rsquo;m just going to leave it as is.
How How did you build this site? Using Hugo and the Ananke theme because it&rsquo;s easy peasy.
The domain was bought using Google Domains.
The site is currently hosted on GitHub Pages.
The source code is availible on GitHub as well.
How does the Contact page work? It&rsquo;s powered via Formspree.io.


.
