!A summary of Whack-a-Meltdown by Daniel Genkin and Yuval Yarom

Monday, February 20, 2023 · 4 minute read

A summary of Whack-a-Meltdown Daniel Genkin and Yuval Yarom IEEE Computing Edge, October 2022 DOI [0]
Table of Contents A summary of Whack-a-Meltdown Table of Contents Summary Out-Of-Order Execution Transient Execution Attacks Leaking Information From The Transient Domain First-Generation Transient Execution Attacks Defenses Second-Generation Attacks Citations Summary The Spectre and Meltdown vulnerabilities reported in 2018 exposed that there exists side effects in speculative and out-of-order execution that allow for an attacker to extract data from the micro architecture of a CPU. These and similar attack patterns share a root cause - the micro architecture allowing to execute code after an instruction fails. To resolve these issues, the straightforward answer is to ensure that subsequent instructions do not use data produced by the failed instruction. However, this is easier said than done and will take time to implement. In the meantime, countermeasures put out by organizations - such as Intel - only act as band aids that can quickly be bypassed.
Out-Of-Order Execution Out-of-order execution allows multiple computational units of a processor (known as ports) to run in parallel, each working on an individual instruction. This is because some instructions take longer than others to complete. To keep track of the instruction order, the processor maintains a reorder buffer (ROB) that keeps track of the instructions and commits the results post instruction completion. If the instruction fails, the ROB quashes the instruction. These instructions are known as transient.
However, there are a few issues with out-of-order execution:
Misspeculation of instructions to run by incorrectly guessing the control flow of the program. Exceptions when an instruction performs an illegal operation, causing the program to abort. Future instructions are no longer part of the program. Microcode assists that handle complex edge cases require that the instruction be thrown out and code from the processor firmware be used to handle that case. &ldquo;When a Transactional Synchronization Extension (TSX) transaction aborts, all of the instructions within that transaction are not a part of the nominal program execution.&rdquo; Transient Execution Attacks Transient execution attacks take advantage that while an instruction fails, the state of the processor does not rollback to its previous state. Therefore, memory addresses, cached data, and address translation are still in the processor state post-transient instruction.
Leaking Information From The Transient Domain Attackers will target the instruction cache post-transient instruction execution. They will measure the amount of time it takes for a memory address to be accessed. If it was quick, then the cache most likely has cached that data.
First-Generation Transient Execution Attacks Meltdown is a transient execution attack where the security between user and kernel memory is bypassed. A user space program tries to access kernel memory and fails, but the cache contains information from that attempted memory address.
Foreshadow takes advantage of Intel processors when they fail to resolve virtual addresses to physical addresses. This attack targets the L1 processor cache. Data can then be sampled from various secure enclaves.
Fallout, RIDL, and ZombieLoad sample data from various caches using micro architecture data sampling (MDS). They lack precision, but when repeatedly targeted, the probability of getting important data increases.
Defenses Intel and industry have released software security patches. Most of these patches apply at OS level.
The Kernel Page Table Isolation (KPTI) patch removes kernel space addresses from the address space of processes thereby preventing user space programs from performing lookups on kernel addresses.
Page Table Entry (PTE) Inversion is a countermeasure against Foreshadow in which the address space following transient execution does not point towards valid page frames. Gang Scheduling is implemented by some VM hypervisors that ensure that two hyper threads of a core always operate under the same protective domain.
Intel has released microcode to protect against MDS attacks. This includes clearing the L1 cache when leaving the SGX enclave and an instruction to flush the cache on a context switch.
Additionally, new processors from Intel do not read across protective domains. With this, KPTI protection can be disabled in order to regain lost performance.
Second-Generation Attacks The CacheOut attack takes advantage of the fact that L1 cache tends to end up in the LFBs post cache flush, allowing data to be read from those locations.
&ldquo;The CrossTalk attack shows that data can be from a shared staging buffer can be loaded to an leaked from LFBs, allowing attackers to compromise the SGX&rsquo;s random number generator.&rdquo;
The Load Value Injection (LVI) attack takes advantage of aborted instructions to get around the cache flushing of data. This allows for an attacker to modify the control flow of a program allowing for the execution of code not intended to be ran.
The authors recommend that to prevent these attacks in the future, micro architecture designs will need to prevent execution of data dependent instructions post aborted instructions. Alternatively, the processor will have to modify the pipeline stages to not process invalid data.
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1109/MSEC.2020.3036146	URL:https://doi.org/10.1109/MSEC.2020.3036146

.
