!A summary of Internet of Video Things in 2030: A World with Many Cameras by Anup Mohan et al.

Wednesday, March 22, 2023 · 3 minute read

A summary of Internet of Video Things in 2030: A World with Many Cameras Anup Mohan et al. ISCAS, 2017 DOI [0]
DISCLOSURE: I work with one of the authors (Yung-Hsiang Lu). My comments and views of the paper may be skewed due to my relationship with the author.
For the summary of the paper, go to the Summary section of this article.
Table of Contents A summary of Internet of Video Things in 2030: A World with Many Cameras Table of Contents First Pass Problem Motivation Category Context Contributions Second Pass Background Work Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Clarity Relevant Work Methodology Author Assumptions Correctness Future Directions Open Questions Author Feedback Summarization Technique Citations First Pass Read the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section headings, and conclusion
Problem What is the problem addressed in the paper?
The author&rsquo;s estimate that there will be ~13 billion cameras by 2030. With so many cameras capturing data continously, it will become increasingly more difficult to process all of that data as computational power, network bandwidth, and storage capactities will limit real-time analysis feasability.
Motivation Why should we care about this paper?
We should care about this paper because it raises issues and potential solutions to said issues w.r.t the massive amounts of data generated and the computational needs of extracting data from said data captured by cameras.
Category What type of paper is this work?
This is a proposal paper. I would also call this a &ldquo;futurist&rdquo;, or trend-analysis paper
Context What other types of papers is the work related to?
This paper is similar to other works that try and predict future computational needs to solve problems.
Contributions What are the author&rsquo;s main contributions?
Their main contributions are a number issues and solutions that could potential solve these issues w.r.t to the 13 billion cameras that are going to be generating data by 2030.
Second Pass A proper read through of the paper is required to answer this
Background Work What has been done prior to this paper?
Work has gone into predicting future computing trends w.r.t networked cameras' storage capacities, bandwidth sizes, and hardware capabilities.
Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that conclusions are statistically significant?
The figures are properly labeled and are clear.
Clarity Is the paper well written?
Yes, this paper is well written.
Relevant Work Mark relevant work for review
The following relevant work can be found in the Citations section of this article.
Methodology What methodology did the author&rsquo;s use to validate their contributions?
The author&rsquo;s reviewed existing hardware capacities and trends, as well as other academic and industry trend analysis papers to make predictions about the future.
Author Assumptions What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?
This whole paper operates on the assumptions that cameras will continue to grow in capability and popularity at a set rate.
Correctness Do the assumptions seem valid?
For this type of paper, that seems valid. However, personally I don&rsquo;t like making predictions about hardware and software trends a decade into the future.
Future Directions My own proposed future directions for the work
Open Questions What open questions do I have about the work?
Author Feedback What feedback would I give to the authors?
Overall, this is a fine work. I would sugest that the author&rsquo;s follow up on this be evaluating existing s.o.t.a works and seeing if they help address any of the problems that they raise.
Summarization Technique This paper was summarized using a modified technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work How to Read a Paper [0].
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	URL:https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

h1. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISCAS.2017.8050296	URL:https://doi.org/10.1109/ISCAS.2017.8050296

.
