!A summary of Interactive Supercomputing With Jupyter by Rollin Thomas et al.

Sunday, February 19, 2023 · 2 minute read

A summary of Interactive Supercomputing With Jupyter Rollin Thomas et al.; IEEE Computing Edge, October 2022 DOI [0]
Table of Contents A summary of Interactive Supercomputing With Jupyter Table of Contents Summary How It Started And How It&rsquo;s Going Phase 1: JupyterHub as Science Gateway Phase 2: Jupyter on a Cori Login Node Phase 3: Jupyter as Interface to an HPC Center Phase 4: JupyterLab as Innovation Platform Jupyter + HPC = Science! Citations Summary The Jupyter project has the potential to allow other scientific domains to utilize supercomputing resources in an accessible manner. The National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) has implemented a Jupyter interface into their Cori supercomputer. This interface now captures 20% - 25% of user traffic when working on Cori.
How It Started And How It&rsquo;s Going In 2015, NERSC recognized that a growing number of users were using SSH to run their Jupyter notebooks on the previous generation Edison supercomputer. As such, NERSC began looking into how to incorporate Jupyter notebooks as a standard interface into Cori.
Phase 1: JupyterHub as Science Gateway NERSC implemented a separate hardware solution to host JupyterHub. This JupyterHub instance allowed users to store their notebooks on the NERSC Global Filesystem (NGF), which allowed teams and individuals to collaborate and run shared notebooks.
Phase 2: Jupyter on a Cori Login Node Jupyter was than ran on login nodes with outputs piped to computation nodes. The architecture and hosting of both the Jupyter and JupyterHub instances kept changing hardware and which confused end users.
Phase 3: Jupyter as Interface to an HPC Center JupyterHub was moved to a Docker container and hosted on Cori. It now acts as the single point of access for running Jupyter notebooks on Cori, specialty servers, and staff only test servers.
Phase 4: JupyterLab as Innovation Platform JupyterLab is a product from the Jupyter project aimed at collaboration and provides many improvements on top of the standard Jupyter project. Such improvements include better file system navigation and reusability and reproducibility of notebook experiments. NERSC has created a number of extensions to support JupyterLab on Cori, including file system navigation extensions, and jupyterlab-slurm for adding SLURM job scheduling directly within JupyterLab.
Jupyter + HPC = Science! A number of disciplines now rely on Jupyter to perform calculations on the Cori supercomputer. These include:
Geophysical Subsurface Imaging Electron Microscope Image Analysis Advanced Light Source Tomography Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1109/MCSE.2021.3059037	URL:https://doi.org/10.1109/MCSE.2021.3059037

.
