!A summary of Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks by Shaoqing Ren et al.

Thursday, December 1, 2022 · 5 minute read

A summary of Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks Shaoqing Ren et al. Posted in the IEEE Transactions on Patterns Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2017 DOI
For the summary of the paper, go to the Summary section of this article.
Table of Contents A summary of Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks Table of Contents First Pass Problem Motivation Category Context Contributions Second Pass Background Work Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Clarity Relevant Work Methodology Author Assumptions Correctness Future Directions Open Questions Author Feedback Summary Summarization Technique Citations First Pass Read the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section headings, and conclusion
Problem What is the problem addressed in the paper?
Fast R-CNN is able to perform fast inferencing on an image for object detection after the region proposal step has been complete. Therefore, if one could improve the speed at which region proposal occurs at, then Fast R-CNN should become even faster. Additionally, region proposal methods rely on handcrafted features that are slow to use and biased towards their implementer. Furthermore, while work regarding region proposal is typically done on the CPU, re-engineering region proposal methods on the GPU only masks the underlying algorithmic problem and implementation, and does not resolve the issue. Therefore, a new approach must be taken to solve this issue.
Motivation Why should we care about this paper?
We should care about this work as it proposes a Region Proposal Network (RPN) that relies on deep learning (DL) techniques to identify the regions of interest. Additionally, the authors were able to pass these into Fast R-CNN almost cost free and were therefore able to improve both the training and inferencing time.
Category What type of paper is this work?
This paper is an algorithms and CV paper.
Context What other types of papers is the work related to?
This paper is related to works regarding object detection and region proposal networks.
Contributions What are the author&rsquo;s main contributions?
The author&rsquo;s main contributions are the development of the Region Proposal Network (RPN), methodologies for including proposed regions within Fast R-CNN from an RPN almost cost free, and a system that can detect objects at 5 to 17 FPS.
Second Pass A proper read through of the paper is required to answer this
Background Work What has been done prior to this paper?
Work has been done to hand create algorithms and filters for region proposal, as well as DL techniques for identifying regions of interest. Additionally, work has been done with respect to the shared computation of convolutions.
Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that conclusions are statistically significant?
The tables and figures are clear.
Clarity Is the paper well written?
This paper is understandable.
Relevant Work Mark relevant work for review
The following relevant work can be found in the Citations section of this article.
J. R. Uijlings, K. E. van de Sande, T. Gevers, and A. W. Smeulders. Selective search for object recognition. IJCV, 2013. Methodology What methodology did the author&rsquo;s use to validate their contributions?
The authors compare the number of proposals made as well as the inference rate (measured in FPS) of RPN + Fast R-CNN on both the VGG and ZF models. Additionally, they compared RPN against the Selective Search (SS) region proposal technique on VGG. They also compared the one stage and two stage object detection using RPN on the ZF model.
Author Assumptions What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?
Their assumption that RPN is a ubiquitous technique regardless of model architecture when combined with Fast R-CNN.
Correctness Do the assumptions seem valid?
Maybe? The biggest concern that I see with that RPNs are reliant upon Fast R-CNN to operate properly. This sounds like a limitation of the network for a particular task and may be difficult to incorporate in future works.
Future Directions My own proposed future directions for the work
I&rsquo;d like to explore RPN usage in model architectures that do not utilize Fast R-CNN.
Open Questions What open questions do I have about the work?
VGG was used as the base model for both this work and Fast R-CNN paper. Why is that? Additionally, this paper calls out re-engineering region proposal solutions to target the GPU to not solve the underlying problem, but the authors did not specify if they made their solution run a GPU. Are RPNs more performant on GPUs?
Author Feedback What feedback would I give to the authors?
This was a good paper. I found the writing style to be very terse which I wasn&rsquo;t a fan of as I find it a little boring. This is a personal preference and not a demerit on the content of the paper nor the explanations given.
Summary A summary of the paper
The paper, Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks by Shaoqing Ren et al. [1] introduces the Region Proposal Network (RPN) architecture for finding image region proposals for the purposes of object detection, specifically with the Fast R-CNN method. RPNs are a convolutional neural network (CNN) that learns region proposals end to end. The output of this network can be fed into an object detection model or be incorporated as a one shot method directly with an existing model.
To do so:
An RPN is trained having the same number of convolutional layers as the target model on the same dataset. A CNN using Fast R-CNN is trained on object detection using the regions proposed from the RPN. The detection network initializes the RPN network, but the RPN&rsquo;s convolutional layers are fixed. This then only trains the RPN&rsquo;s unique layers. The detection network fixes its CNN layers, and fine tunes its unique layers. By doing this, both the RPN and the Object Detection network now share the same convolutional layers. This forms a unified network that allows for more accurate region proposals.
Summarization Technique This paper was summarized using a modified technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work How to Read a Paper [0].
Citations 

h0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	URL:https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

h1. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2016.2577031	URL:https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2016.2577031

h2. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-013-0620-5	URL:https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-013-0620-5

.
