!A summary of ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research by Nicholas H. Steneck

Friday, January 13, 2023 · 7 minute read

A summary of ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research Written by Nicholas H. Steneck
For the summary of the book, go to the Summary section of this article.
Table of Contents A summary of ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research Table of Contents Chapter Summaries Foreward Preface Chapter 1: Rules of the Road Chapter 2: Research Misconduct Chapter 3: The Protection of Human Subjects Chapter 4: The Welfare of Laboratory Animals Chapter 5: Conflicts of Interest Summary Citations Chapter Summaries Chapter specific summaries
Foreward This book is published by the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) as supplemental material to assist in the teaching of the responsible conduct of research. The ORI oversees and directs the Public Health Service (PHS) research integrety on behalf of the Secretary of Health and Human Services as well as the American public. This book stems from the ethics that were raised in biology related fields in 1989 and has sinced expanded to become more general and applicable to other disciplines.
Preface As the importance of science and technology increases, so too has the public&rsquo;s demand for the responsible conduct of research. Simply put, this means that good citizenship is applied to a researcher&rsquo;s professional life. However, as each field is different, so too does what &ldquo;good citizenship&rdquo; mean within each field. This book was written to briefly introduce researchers to what is generally accepted as responsible conduct regardless of their working field.
Chapter 1: Rules of the Road There aren&rsquo;t clear rules laid out to for researcher&rsquo;s to easily understand what is and isn&rsquo;t responsible research conduct. Rather, there are many organizing bodies, both official and non-official, that govern what is and isn&rsquo;t responsible. Furthermore, a researcher&rsquo;s personal judgement must also solve this ethical calculus. In order of importance of whose rules to listen too, it goes: Professional Codes, Federal, State, institutional policies, and personal judgement. Not all professions have Professional Codes. Federal regulations have to first be made available for public comment in the Federal Register, and once accepted, are incorporated into the Code of Federal Regulations and must be followed. Researchers are advised to seek help in understanding Federal rules.
Chapter 2: Research Misconduct Research misconduct policies provide guidance on responsible conduct in these three areas:
1. Establish definitions for misconduct in research, 2. Outline procedures for reporting and investigating misconduct, and 3. Provide protection for whistleblowers and person accused of misconduct. Federal regulations for research misconduct technically only apply at the Federal level, but many institutions incorporate and expand it within their own policies. The Office of Science and Technology Policy&rsquo;s (OSTP), a Federal agenct, definition of research misconduct is, &ldquo;fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting research results&rdquo;. For an action to be considered research misconduct, it must meet the following criteria:
1. Represent a, &#34;significant departure from accepted practices&#34;, 2. Have been, &#34;committed intentionally, or knowingly, or recklessly&#34;; and 3. Be, &#34;proven by a prponderance of evidence&#34;. The federal policy puts the responsibility of research misconduct reporting and investigation on both researchers and their research institutions. Research misconduct puts a researcher&rsquo;s career on the line. Additionally, a whistleblower runs the risk of illegal retaliation. Furthermore, the accused researcher(s) only face punishment when proven guilty.
The violation of Federal rules, abuse of confidentiality, authorship and publication violations, failure to report misconduct, obstruction of misconduct investigations, and other institutional level policies can be classified as research misconduct. It is assumed that research misconduct is under reported. Regardless, this misconduct taints the public image of research, wastes donated or tax-funded dollars, and harms both the professional reputations of researchers and institutions.
Chapter 3: The Protection of Human Subjects Human subjects are used in order to find improvements to the human experience. This could involve the creation of new medicines, surgeries, or experiments.
Researchers who use human subjects are subject to Federal regulations. Both the Nuremberg Code and the Declaration of Helsinki are guidelines that are to be followed when testing on human subjects. Additionally, the Federal regulation 45 CFR 46 Subparts A - D, known as the &ldquo;Common Rule&rdquo;, are expected to be followed as well. Exempt research from the &ldquo;Common Rule&rdquo; include:
- Research conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings, - Research involving the use of educational tests, - Research involving the collection or study of existing data, documents, records, pathological specimens, or diagnostic specimens, if unidentifiable or publicly availible, Research and demonstration projects which are conducted by or subject to the approval of department or agency heads; or Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies. Any institution that performs human research must have a Federally mandated Internal Review Board (IRB) consisting of at least 5 people, one of which is a scientist, one of which is a non-scientist, and one who is not affiliated with the institution. Furthermore, all researchers working with human subjects must undergo National Institutes of Health (NIH) training.
All human subjects must have to informed consent and the right to withdraw. Furthermore, there is an ethical concern in human subjects research that some experiments have risks without any benefits.
Chapter 4: The Welfare of Laboratory Animals Research on animal subjects is done to benefit humans without experimenting on humans. The 1966 Animal Welfare Act and the 1985 Health and Research Extension Act both act as Federal regulations that researcher&rsquo;s experimenting on human subjects must abide by. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is responsible for the transportation, care, and use of animals. The usage of animals for biomedical and behavioral research is subject to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), acting through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW), NIH. Furthermore, activists have put together guidelines through the Animal Care Panel (ACP) commonly reffered to as th Guide. The Guide is widely accepted both in public and private institutions as well as Federal laboratories.
The definition of an animal from the PHS Policy is, &ldquo;any live, vertebrate animals used or inteded for use in research, research training, experimentation, or biological testing or for related purposes&rdquo;. the definition of an animal from the Common Rule that implements the Animal Welfare Act includes warm blooded animals (mammals) but excludes, &ldquo;Birds, rats of the genus Rattus and mice of the genus Mus bred for use in research, and horses not used for research purposes and other farm animals&rdquo;.
Institutions testing on animals must create an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) which acts similarly to an IRB but for animals. These, along with the OLAW, USDA, and accrediation programs, are responsible for the proper care and respect of animal subjects. Prior to using animal subjects, researchers must defend the usage of animal subjects against the &ldquo;three R&rsquo;s&rdquo;:
1. Replacement - using non-animal models such asmicroorganisms or cell culture techniques, computer simulations, or species lower on the phulogenetic scale, 2. Reduction - using methods aimed at reducing the numbers of animals such as minimization of variability, appropriate selection of animal model, minimization of animal loss, and careful experimental design, and 3. Refinement - the elimination or reduction of unnecessary pain and distress [in animal subjects]. Chapter 5: Conflicts of Interest Researchers can experience three different types of conflicts of interest:
Financial gain, Work commitments, and Intellectual and personal matters. Financial gains involve reciving money from an institute that the researcher has a vested in. This could involve having stock in the company, or being a member of the company.
Work commitments involve colluding multiple working positions into one in order to serve a singular purpose. In other words, if a position at work is being used to further a research objective or vice versa, it is a conflict of interest.
Intellectual and personal matter conflicts of interest occur when the idealogy, beliefs, or viewpoint of a researcher could interfere with their research objectives. As an example (not mentioned in this book; purely my own thought probably taken from someone else) is a pro-life reseacher working on abortificants.
Summary A summary of the entire book
Citations 

.
